+++
date = "2016-11-26"
title = "Coffee."
categories = ["health"]
tags = ["coffee", "case study", "self-experimentation"]
+++
A jittery and slightly abusive love story.

I feel absurd writing this, but I'm not sure coffe and I are meant to be
together. We always start out so good; that first cup in the morning gets my
mind going, and I mean _going_. Holy shit, the ideas that come into my
head...and the sheer _quantity_, I mean, just _dozens_. And that's any given
morning! Plus, the world seems so much more..._conquerable_: "I can learn
front-end web development, calculus, machine learning, review my algorithms
textbook, and graphics programming simulatanesouly; I just need good time
management!"

But coffee soon starts looking more like a siren than a muse. My carefully-laid
schedule, built to lay brick-by-brick of foundational knowledge and skill
towards my master plan, gets thrown out the window by sudden insights and
fervently-important tangents. Hell, these very words are due to coffee! I didn't
mean to write about my shitty relationship with coffee! I was gonna study
probability! God-_dammit_. Plus, I don't think my insides, how to say,
_accomodates_ coffee very well. It's sneaky though; sometimes it takes a few
days. Of course, I usually lose my god-damned mind and "1 cup in the morning,
and only after breakfast" turns into "2 cups, then some decaf, and oh shit I
didn't eat anything and now it's dinner".

I don't know where I'm going with this. It makes me feel great, and I've had
some genuine breakthroughs that I attribute at least in part to coffee. I used
to think my body thought it was poison, but it could just as easily be my
inability to consume it responsibly; a cup after eating may be fine, but three
cups on an empty stomach not so much (writing that out begs a "_sans
excrement_")

## Pros
Looking up [Caffeine on examine.com](https://examine.com/supplements/Caffeine/)
eventually links to articles[^1] that show caffeine consumed _after_ learning can
aid in memory consolidation. Interestingly, no benefit is shown when coffee is
drank _before_ learning.

Let the good ideas _flow_. Valuable in my line of work and hobbies (which look a
lot like my line of work).

Lots of physical performance benefits are associated with caffeine: Training
volume, lactate production, power creation. You'd be a _fool_ not to use some!
But tea provides caffeine as well as coffee.

Some evidence that coffee (or caffeine; it's hard to pull them apart) helps with
the "tip-of-the-tongue" effect, i.e. recall by association. Very helpful; I just
remembered I wanted to buy "Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers" for my girlfriend.

## Cons
Makes it _much_ more likely my emotions get the better of my good sense, and
that may be the worst sin of all.

Seems to suppress my appetite. I am not a guy who needs his appetite suppressed,
so this is a major negative. However, this may only be when I drink coffe on an
empty stomach.

Possibly linked to some GI distress? See above note on coffee-before-or-after
food.

Browns your teeth. Seriously though, now you've got something else to maintain.

Can make me more irritable, and short with people in general, and no likes a
cranky me.

Can lead to greater anxiety, which can reinforce other stressors, and
_stress_ is a sure way to slowly ruin everything.


## Verdict
I really like coffee. I feel like the answer lies in me figuring out its place
in my life, which sounds like in the morning, around 10, after I've eaten and
done my morning studies.


[^1]:
    https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/the-curious-wavefunction/should-you-drink-coffee-before-or-after-a-learning-task/
