+++
categories = []
date = "2017-01-04T10:03:36-05:00"
tags = []
title = "Fitness"

+++

I've been interested in human improvement for over a decade now, but I'd have to
say it started when I got into weight lifting. It's such a perfect black-box:
input exercise, output personal improvement. We have not come so far as to
split off from our physical selves. I've progressed and regressed more than I
can keep track of, but I've (mostly) enjoyed the process.

How I learned, however, is not how I would recommend to another. I wasted much
time, over-trained, and picked up some injuries I'm sure to entertain for the
rest of my life due to ignorance of proper lifting technique and an
under-appreciation for mobility as a foundation for strength. I hope that by
collecting my thoughts, I will come to new conclusions, and find more
sustainable ways forward.

There are a few criteria for any new action, and I steal here from Gray Cook:
Is it sustainable? Is it well-informed? Is there feedback? Positive answers to
these questions create maintainable, intelligent, adaptable systems. Those we
like.

## Diagnosis & Feedback
Stretching can inform your myofasical-release strategy. When stretching, focus
on exactly _where_ within the muscle you feel tightness, and attack those areas
while foam rolling.



## Notes
If you don't feel good after a workout, are you doing something wrong?

Performing muscle-focused work in a circuit has been working well.  Using the
rest periods to perform ancillary training (like grip strength) and stretching
fits those lesser priorities in without wasting time.

If we believe strength-training to be a skill, we can decompose the skill into
its component parts. At the bottom of this hierarchy, we arrive at the
contractions of singular muscles; at the top, the complete movement. At
intermediate steps, we have the composite movements that make up the larger
movement. How can we routinely and analytically decompose a movement?
